README.md, before:

# kuhn-cloud

This uses [Kube-Hetzner](https://github.com/kube-hetzner/terraform-hcloud-kube-hetzner) to setup the k8s cluster on hetzner cloud.

To get started you need to copy `secrets.auto.tfvars.example` to `secrets.auto.tfvars` and fill the secrets.

## Dashboards

### Kubernetes Dashboard

You need to create a token to get access:

```sh
kubectl -n kube-system create token admin-user
```
### Longhorn

Bla

## Setup

## Install

You need to have [opentofu](https://opentofu.org/) and [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/) installed.

## Update images

```sh
export HCLOUD_TOKEN=$(echo "nonsensitive(var.hcloud_token)" | terraform console -var-file secrets.auto.tfvars | sed -e 's/^"//' -e 's/"$//')

cd cluster/kube
curl -sL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kube-hetzner/terraform-hcloud-kube-hetzner/master/packer-template/hcloud-microos-snapshots.pkr.hcl -o "hcloud-microos-snapshots.pkr.hcl"
packer init hcloud-microos-snapshots.pkr.hcl
packer build hcloud-microos-snapshots.pkr.hcl
```

## Run

### OpenTofu

```sh
tofu init --upgrade
tofu validate
tofu apply -auto-approve
```

### kubectl

Normally the kube config is created automatically. Otherwise you can get it via 
```sh
terraform output --raw kubeconfig > k3s_kubeconfig.yaml
```

Now you can use kubectl like this:
```sh
export KUBECONFIG="$(pwd)/k3s_kubeconfig.yaml"

kubectl version
```

#### Setup

To setup the base line of cluster services like monitoring, storange, etc. you need to run `setup.sh` to make sure all are setup and installed in the correct order.

#### Secrets

Unfortunately it's not possible to provide the secrets to all places via the kubernetes secrets. Therefore the with_secrets.sh script exists which populates the secrets correctly. The secrets have to be stored in secrets.env. Copy .secrets.env.example and fill it with the correct secrets. 

Now you can create those via

```sh
./with_secrets.sh apply service/hello
```

and delete them via

```sh
./with_secrets.sh delete service/hello
```

## Development

### Work with helm

Use kustomize to keep helm charts as IaC (see setup/ for examples). To see the different helm chart config values you can use following or check out the `values.yaml` of the source code (in this exampe [kube-prometheus-stack/values.yaml](https://github.com/prometheus-community/helm-charts/blob/main/charts/kube-prometheus-stack/values.yaml))

```sh
helm repo add prometheus-community https://prometheus-community.github.io/helm-charts
helm repo update
helm show values prometheus-community/kube-prometheus-stack | less
```

### Useful commands

#### List

List all services
```sh
kubectl -n prometheus get services
```

List all ingress
```sh
kubectl -n prometheus get ingress
```

List all pods
```sh
kubectl -n prometheus get pods
```

If you can't find it you can normally use `--all-namespaces` instead of `-n ...` (Must be after get pods to work).

#### Describe

You can use describe to get more details whats going on.

```sh
kubectl -n prometheus describe ingress
```

#### Logs

You can read the logs with the following command. To get the pod id use the list command from above.

```sh
kubectl -n prometheus logs <pod name>
```

Commit message:

Disable load balancer and completely close firewall

README.md, after:

# kuhn-cloud

This uses [Kube-Hetzner](https://github.com/kube-hetzner/terraform-hcloud-kube-hetzner) to setup the k8s cluster on hetzner cloud.

To get started you need to copy `secrets.auto.tfvars.example` to `secrets.auto.tfvars` and fill the secrets.

## Dashboards

### Kubernetes Dashboard

You need to create a token to get access:

```sh
kubectl -n kube-system create token admin-user
```
### Longhorn

Bla

## Setup

## Install

You need to have [opentofu](https://opentofu.org/) and [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/) installed.

## Update images

```sh
export HCLOUD_TOKEN=$(echo "nonsensitive(var.hcloud_token)" | terraform console -var-file secrets.auto.tfvars | sed -e 's/^"//' -e 's/"$//')

cd cluster/kube
curl -sL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kube-hetzner/terraform-hcloud-kube-hetzner/master/packer-template/hcloud-microos-snapshots.pkr.hcl -o "hcloud-microos-snapshots.pkr.hcl"
packer init hcloud-microos-snapshots.pkr.hcl
packer build hcloud-microos-snapshots.pkr.hcl
```

## Run

### OpenTofu

```sh
tofu init --upgrade
tofu validate
tofu apply -auto-approve
```

### kubectl

Normally the kube config is created automatically. Otherwise you can get it via 
```sh
terraform output --raw kubeconfig > k3s_kubeconfig.yaml
```

Now you can use kubectl like this:
```sh
export KUBECONFIG="$(pwd)/k3s_kubeconfig.yaml"

kubectl version
```

You might need to rerun tofu, because for now the kube api is blocked by the firewall and only the local IP is allowed. Since it will change regularly you also need to update the ip by applying tofu agian.

#### Setup

To setup the base line of cluster services like monitoring, storange, etc. you need to run `setup.sh` to make sure all are setup and installed in the correct order.

#### Secrets

Unfortunately it's not possible to provide the secrets to all places via the kubernetes secrets. Therefore the with_secrets.sh script exists which populates the secrets correctly. The secrets have to be stored in secrets.env. Copy .secrets.env.example and fill it with the correct secrets. 

Now you can create those via

```sh
./with_secrets.sh apply service/hello
```

and delete them via

```sh
./with_secrets.sh delete service/hello
```

## Development

### Work with helm

Use kustomize to keep helm charts as IaC (see setup/ for examples). To see the different helm chart config values you can use following or check out the `values.yaml` of the source code (in this exampe [kube-prometheus-stack/values.yaml](https://github.com/prometheus-community/helm-charts/blob/main/charts/kube-prometheus-stack/values.yaml))

```sh
helm repo add prometheus-community https://prometheus-community.github.io/helm-charts
helm repo update
helm show values prometheus-community/kube-prometheus-stack | less
```

### Useful commands

#### List

List all services
```sh
kubectl -n prometheus get services
```

List all ingress
```sh
kubectl -n prometheus get ingress
```

List all pods
```sh
kubectl -n prometheus get pods
```

If you can't find it you can normally use `--all-namespaces` instead of `-n ...` (Must be after get pods to work).

#### Describe

You can use describe to get more details whats going on.

```sh
kubectl -n prometheus describe ingress
```

#### Logs

You can read the logs with the following command. To get the pod id use the list command from above.

```sh
kubectl -n prometheus logs <pod name>
```
